Testing, testing, testing, one, two, three,
four. One, two, three, four. This is December
15th, and we're in San Antonio, and I have the joy
and pleasure of chatting with an old friend, Clark
Munro, who spells his last name M-U-N-R-O-E. As
far as we know, we are not related. And to begin
with, Clark, would you introduce yourself to this
tape or the transcription, anyone who would read
it, describe family background, where you grew
up. Tell a biographical summary before you got to
Texas A&M the first time. All right. I was raised in
Pennsylvania, small town, 250 people. One of four
children, three boys and a girl. My father was a
small town banker. We lived there until World War
II started. He was commissioned in the Army during
World War II. He'd been at World War I. And he ended
up coming to San Antonio as a major in the Air Force.
He informed us that he was too old to go overseas. So
he said to my mother, sell the house and bring the
kids and come on down here. My older brother was in
his first year at BMI. And at that time, we drove
down on four black market tires that we had to get in
order to make the trip. And the day we arrived, he
got ordered overseas. And he left before we had any
furniture in the house or really knew where we
were. And they stayed here then the rest of their
lives. I ended up going into the Navy after I
graduated from high school in 1943. I finished one
year of high school here in San Antonio. I spent
three years in the Navy, got out. None of my family
had ever gone to college. I guess I was one of the
generation that, because of the GI Bill, had that
opportunity. And I had no idea about colleges in
Texas. My family, without any background in
college-level education, weren't in any
position to give me much advice. I happened to be
running into a classmate, a high school classmate
of mine, after I got out of Navy, and he said, where
are you going to go to college? And I said, I haven't
any idea. And he said, well, I'm going to go to A&M.
You want to go there? And I said, where is it? And he
said, well, I've got us a ride. At that time, there
weren't many cars, and certainly in college, you
didn't have cars. And he said, we've got an extra
space you want to ride up with, so I packed a
suitcase and joined three other guys and we drove
up to A&M and that was my introduction to Texas A&M.
And did you say you had finished high school? I did
finish high school. Which high school?
Alma-Hines. Alma-Hines. Alright, when you go to
A&M, that's the fall of what year? Okay, there was
one interlude in there and this bears on when I got
there. My family was on a ranch up in Waco for the
summer when I got out of the Navy. And when I was up,
so I reported there after I got out of the Navy. I
went to a, I think it was a semester or a quarter at
Baylor in summer school and got some credits
there. So I didn't come into A&M until the fall of
47. 47. Yeah. You had never visited. Never, didn't
know the place existed. Had you even applied? No.
How did you get admitted? I had a high school
diploma, and it's my understanding, at least from
this perspective, all you had to do was show up on
the campus with a high school diploma, and you
could get in. You were better. Describe
those first few days. How did you get located into a
place to live and registration and so forth? Well,
this friend of mine, and his name was John
Drisdale, And John and I are still great friends.
You were all freshmen? We were all freshmen. And he
had been there before. He knew about the school. He
had been there before. And I don't remember what
circumstances. But we just showed up and
registered. And they gave us a room. And he and I
roomed together. Where was registration? Do you
remember? I really don't remember. I think it may
have been Sabisa Hall. It had to have been Sabisa
Hall, because I was over, I was in, I did not go into
the core initially, and so all of us, it was Sabisa
Hall, I remember now. Do you remember what you took
that first semester? I enrolled, my major was
going to be business, and I just presumed it was
just general business courses. I had It wasn't
very well planned. I just decided business was a
good thing to take, and I decided to take it. And I'm
always glad I did. It was a good education. And
where did you room that first time? I'm trying to
think of the dorm number. It was there right as you
go into Northgate on the right. Of course, at that
time, that had always been core dormitories in
there. The non-core people, the vets, were in
there at that time, And I honestly don't remember
the name of the dorm, it was down at the end of the
little rectangle. Alright, and as an old veteran,
you were how old? I must have been all of, let's see,
20, maybe 19, 20. Yeah, I must have been about 20.
And your Baylor courses made you basically,
though, taking introductory courses, freshman
courses that first year. That's right. Describe
getting settled into the dormitory. What was in
your room? What was the routine? Number one is for
the newer people, they were not air conditioned.
There were no telephones. It was a bare bones room.
It had a double bunk, two tables, two chairs, and
that was it. And my roommate and I, it was kind of
hot. And together we scraped up enough money to go
down to Montgomery Wards and finance electric
fans which, as I remember, was at about $30. And
later on, we decided we needed a radio, and so we
went back down to Montgomery Wards and financed a
radio. And as long as we were roommates, we kept
that, and when we split, when I went into the Corps,
we flipped a coin, and I got the fan, and he got the
radio. It wasn't very fancy, but it served. The
financing of this year, was it entirely GI Bill?
Entirely GI Bill. Not long after I went to A&M, I
started to work. I got a job down at WTOW. The
college owned the station at that time. And the
studios, if you can call them that, were on the top
floor of the administration building. And so I
worked jobs as a disc jockey down there. I remember
I was interviewed and the fellow that interviewed
me put me in front of a microphone and he said,
imagine that you're announcing a golf match, and
how would you broadcast a golf match? Well, I
didn't play golf, but I'd seen enough of it that I
stumbled my way through about five minutes of
that, and he said, you're hired, and I made, I
think, 50 cents an hour, and I had this jockey show
for about a year and a half. How many hours per night
or week?
Not, maybe four hours a day. And then on the
weekends, maybe more than that. What time did you
play? I think it varied because we're all students
and we just worked around our classes. And what
kind of music did you play? Anything, but the most
interesting music, I had a disc jockey show at
1230, and my theme song was a Grandpa Jones record
called Hear Rattler.
And in that song, Grandpa Jones, about halfway
through it, would call his dog and be, hey Rattler,
hey Rattler. The troops loved this and of course
that was before there was any air conditioning and
all the windows were open in the dorms and the
seniors would make the freshmen stick their heads
out the window and call, hey Rattler, when my
program came on. So it made my reputation at A&M, at
least at that year. Did you have a distinctive name
for your program? It was the Clark Monroe Show.
Okay. My name got around the campus pretty quick.
And the distance that WTAW could carry then, do you
know? I don't think that much beyond Brazos
County. I don't remember how many watts we had,
maybe 5,000 watts, but nobody else would listen to
us but A&M people anyway, and at that time there was
no other station. KORA was not in existence at that
time. That was the only other It was the only
station in town. Really? Yeah. Did anybody at that
point have an explanation of what the letters
stood for? I don't ever remember anyone saying
that. See, today, supposedly, they stand for
Watch the Aggies Win. That's a later edition, I
think. I don't remember that. We didn't win much
back then, either. What kind of homework did you do
to get your records and so forth ready? Oh, that was
simple. I'd just walk in about 30 minutes ahead of
time and pull records and go for 30 minutes if that
was the time of my show. My show was ad lib.
Everything else we had a format that they
subscribed to and it was no problem. Now, Grandpa
Jones is country music. Oh, yeah. But was it big
band mixed in with country? Oh, yeah. Not on my
show. My show was mostly country music. But we did
some other things, you know, other times of the
day. Now, had you done radio ever before? Never
been in a radio station of my life.
Back to your room. What were the furnishings in the
room other than the bunk and the table? That was it.
And how much gear did you take in terms of clothing
in that first year? Oh, very little. I carried it
all in two suitcases. And I'm sure I may have had one
suit, thinking that this is right after the war.
And there wasn't much of that. You still couldn't
buy white shirts unless under the counter. And I
didn't have enough money to buy more than one suit.
So there was plenty of room. And room left over,
yeah. This was a veteran's dorm. Yeah,
everything, at that time, everybody was in the
corps unless you were a veteran. So this is what we
called a non-vet, I mean, a non-corps. About how
many of you, as far as you can recall, about what was
the percentage of non-corps, of the vets? Gosh,
I'm sure I knew that at one time, but I would say in
47, probably...
The core was still, I think, in the majority. And
I'm thinking now, probably left out of that
calculation, the married students. Because a lot
of vets were married and lived off campus. But the
core was the big bulk. The core was A&M. Describe a
day of routine for you that first year. What time
did you get up? What did you do where? Where did you?
I remember we walked a little far. The classrooms
were down below where the power plant is now. They
were all temporary buildings. Wooden army
barracks type of buildings.
I'd usually get up about maybe seven o'clock. I ate
sabisa. I always ate sabisa because I didn't have
money left to eat anywhere else. And there wasn't
much other places to eat anyway. And my classes
were all down south to power plant. So I went down
there, but then of course when I was working at
WTOG, I had to walk down to the administration
building. Now, are you talking about the system
administration? System administration. The one
east, not the old academic. Not the old academic
building, no. That was my pattern pretty much.
Now, I did have some classes like English and
liberal arts classes for up in the academic
building. I don't recall having a science class.
So I think primarily I was in the old barracks down
south of the power plant and academic building.
That was it. Of course, there was no student
center. All right. And you walked back to eat
lunch. I walked back to eat lunch. Did you have any
free time? Any unscheduled time? Not really. I
took a pretty good load all the time. I think I took
at least 18 hours, and then of course working down
in WTOW took up the rest of my time. What did you all
do in the evenings after supper? I'd like to say
that we studied, and I'm sure we did some, but I
don't recall having been overburdened with study
either.
There really wasn't much to do there at that time.
How were you veterans treated by the
non-veterans, younger veterans? There never
were any problems.
Of course, you really can break down into the
married veterans, the non-married veterans, and
then the Corps. The Corps was, you know, they were
physically separated from us, but there was never
any problem at all. They got along well, and a
number of guys The veterans moved on over to the
Corps, which is what I did in my junior year. Now,
you all left your doors open, I presume. Oh, yeah.
Because... I didn't have, I don't think I had a key.
I maybe did, but I don't remember. And nothing was
ever stolen. No. And you left your windows open
except when it rained. Yes. Very few people had
covers. A couple of, you know, some of the veterans
had covers. I was not one of them. But if you wanted
to go into town, into Bryan, you know, you could
find somebody to... to ride with. But we
hitchhiked back and forth to Bryan too. There
wasn't much in Bryan, that was the only movie.
Other than that, there was the campus theater too.
But we'd want to go in town. And your roommate
became a close friend. Did you make any other
important lasting friendships that first year?
Yeah, none that I've kept up with since then, but in
Grizzdale I have. We used to double date a lot. We
used to come down to San Antonio and we had a couple
of girlfriends down there.
But I really didn't make a lot of friends like that
that stayed with me until I moved over into the
Corps. During that first semester, what were the
events or what other circumstances that made you
think that you had made a good choice, that this is a
place that you liked? Uh, I'll tell you, the thing
probably that made me like Indian at that time was I
had, coming out of the Navy, I'd been on board a
cruiser. I was in a group, a division on a cruiser.
There were 16 of us that lived in literally almost a
closet, you know, stacked more than five bucks
high. and you get used to being with a lot of people
in close contact and there's a certain
camaraderie that stems from that and I kind of
sense that same sort of thing. When I first got out
of the Navy I missed that because I was in town and I
didn't know anybody and I almost re-enlisted and
went back to the Navy but fortunately I didn't but I
think that camaraderie carried over and I always
appreciated that. Do you remember any of the A&M
extracurricular events that fall? I'm not sure if
it was this fall, but it probably was. Number one,
there were not much structured extracurricular
activity except athletics. You know, you had the
dorms and the core units and so forth. That was
about it. But you had Yale practice. Oh, yeah, we
did have Yale practice. The one that stands out in
my mind was one that WTAW sponsored together, I
think with the battalion, but I think it was mostly
WTAW, that we brought Grandpa Jones down for a
concert. And the only place to have it that we could
get into was what was known as the Assembly Hall.
And it was... Oh, not too far from the grill field.
There was a wooden building, exposed rafters,
hot. And old Grandpa Jones came down. This was in
the summer when it was very hot. And he was really a
young man, but he dressed up like he was an older
man. He had a white mustache glued on, you know, on
the hat. And the troops loved him. We packed and
sent him home. and it got so hot that old Grandma
jumped the bus dash bomb. But that was, and he sang
Hear Rattler, I guess, five times, you know. And
that was a fun thing. That was a big
extracurricular activity. You and your new
student buddies, what about the first football
games and Yale practices and things like that? Oh,
we loved them. Yeah, we, you know, We kind of got
caught up in the way the Corps did it. We went to
everything. Again, there were no girls there,
which makes a big difference. There was a lot of
beer drinking and that type of thing. All off
campus, of course. The
only activities were centered around the Corps.
We just fit in right without any problem with that.
Do you remember where y'all practices were held?
On the steps of Goodwin Hall. Goodwin or YMCA? I
think it was Goodwin. Goodwin? Yeah, because we
spilled out on the parade ground. Yeah, it was
Goodwin Hall. And they weren't on held at
midnight, were they? I don't recall. Not in my
first year or two. That's what I thought. But yeah,
toward the latter year, because I... After I
worked on W-Town, I went to work on the battalion.
And that was when I got into the Corps. And the
reason I respond to the midnight yell practice
thing is because there's been a midnight yell
practice up at Fort Worth or Dallas, and it got
pretty rough. And some guys got hurt. So on the
battalion, we occasionally launched off into an
ill-thought crusade, and we decided that
midnight yell practice off campus wasn't a good
thing to do, and we editorialized against it. That
was not a wise thing to do. I don't know where
they've drowned out people now, but at that time,
if you upset somebody, they would make
arrangements to come into your room in the middle
of the night and dump a tub full of water on you. And
as a battalion rider, I was at odds with people
occasionally, and I used to get drowned out pretty
regularly. My senior year, I roomed with a corps
commander, and he wouldn't sleep on the lower
bunk. I had to sleep on the lower bunk. So, back to
your question, we did have midnight yell
practice, and after we editorialized against it,
And I got drowned out several times. We stopped
editorializing against me in that Yale practice.
Describe going to an Aggie football game, that
first year or so. You know, I don't recall, other
than maybe going up to Waco, going to football
games off campus. No, on campus. Oh, on campus. Oh,
okay. Oh, it was, you know, I don't think it's
changed except in numbers. I don't think it's
changed at all. It was a big event. Did you veterans
stand up? Oh, yeah. Oh, sure. But the interesting
thing, at that time, there wasn't an athletic
dormitory. The athletes lived in the units. I
don't know where they go to classes these days, but
they went to classes then. You rub shoulders with
all the guys on the team constantly.
Who were the, were there any celebrity stars when
you got there? Not that I remember. Because they
were all, there were a number of veterans in that
group, too. Yeah. I don't, you know, I can't call
the name of somebody in those early days who was a
big star. We really didn't have very good teams, to
tell the truth. I do remember going to, I believe I
did make a game in Austin, but... you know, didn't
have much money, so it was kind of hard to travel. I
remember one time we did, now this is after I got in
the Corps, we went to a game up in Dallas, and five of
us crowded into a Jeep with a canvas top on it. You
know, put five people in a Jeep, it isn't easy. And
that was kind of how we got around, but that was
better than hitchhiking. During that first year,
who did you turn to for advice about Anything?
I don't really recall turning to anybody for
advice. You know, we, when I think of the veterans,
had kind of learned to live on our own. Did you all
think of yourselves as comparatively mature?
Older, I don't know about mature, but older. About
the only person that I went to for anything was,
there was a His name will come to me. A student loan
fund, McQuillan, E.E. McQuillan ran a student
loan fund. And you could walk into E.E. and, oh, it
was Mr. McQuillan, and you could borrow $10 on your
signature. And no interest. All you had to do was
agree to pay it back. And almost everybody I knew
was always in hock to Mr. McQuillan. But he told me
one time, he said, I never lost any money. So he
would be the person I would go to when I needed $10.
All right. When you were registering, say, for the
second or third or fourth semesters, was there
someone you turned to for advice on what courses to
take or not to take? No. We were allowed to pick our
own courses. They said, you have to have these
before you graduate. And we just went and took
them. There was no counseling in that sense. I'm
talking about in the business courses. Were there
some faculty members whose courses you had who
became important to you in terms of what you
learned? I'm not talking about necessarily the
facts, but what they really taught you? One man,
and at this minute I can't call his name, stood out
head and shoulders above everybody else, and he
taught geography. And I don't know why. Skip's
lesson? Skipper's lesson? No, no. Okay. I know who
he is, but he was not my father. And I don't know that
he was there that long. And I don't know why I was
taking geography. But he made geography come
alive. And we all liked it. I think the veterans
were more critical of the professors than the
non-vets. And you could see that. And if there was a
phoneme, there were some phonemes. We spotted
them pretty quick. I remember I had an advertising
prof that I don't think could find the front door.
A&M wouldn't tolerate someone like that today.
But you have to think that all of a sudden overnight
A&M doubled or more. in its student population,
and I don't know where they got the crops to come in
from. But there were some good ones, but there were
some . What about the size of classes? Size of
classes were pretty large, at least it seemed to me
they were large. In the early years, they'd fill a
room. Are you talking about 30, or are you talking
about 300? No, 50, 60, but they couldn't get any
more than that in a room. And in the summertime,
when it's not in a condition And it's a wooden
building. You didn't want any more than that in the
room anyway. But we didn't know anybody. You know,
it had always been us. And academically, how were
those first semesters for you? I didn't have much
problem.
Again, I think I had been exposed to some things,
you know, just in living through three years in the
Navy, that made things easier for me. Did anybody
ever attempt to... warn you people like they did
the fish, look to your left, look to your right,
only one of you will still be here two years from
now? No, the veterans, they didn't do that to us. We
were on our own, and we could do pretty much what we
wanted to do. And there were no special advisors
just for y'all? If there were, I never met one.
Since the MSC wasn't there yet, where did y'all go
for a soft drink, for an ice cream cone? There were,
I'm going to dig back in memory now, there were
several, I'll call them stands, or almost tiny
cafes around. There was one up in the core area, was
it Casey's? And there were maybe two others around
campus that you could go to, and they served
hamburgers and hot dogs and coffee and stuff like
that. And you just walked to them, and they were
just typical little cafes. And wasn't there one in
the Y? I don't remember one in Hawaii, but there was
the Aggieland, I believe it was Aggieland Inn,
which was not too far from Sevesa, across the
street, I believe. And you could get a nice meal in
there. It wasn't very large, and since none of us
had any money, we didn't go in there very often. But
it was a place you could take your parents when they
came up. Although my parents never came down to
campus, I don't think. I don't think they ever sat
down again. My mother. How often did, the first
year or so, how often did you come home?
Maybe two or three times, hitchhike, get in the
Aggieland. Now, you didn't have a uniform to wear.
No. That first year. Was it easier for the guys in
uniform to get a ride than it was for the rest of you?
No, because in the A line, you just walked up and you
put your bag down. There were some guys from the
Corps there and some nonvets. And the people who
would stop, they didn't care. They knew who you
were. What route did you take going back and forth?
Highway 21. Really? Yeah, Highway 21. Normally,
how much time did you expect it to take? Your
experience led you to believe it. To get a ride? No,
no, no, from there to here. Oh gosh, I don't
remember. Yeah, maybe three or four hours. So not
much longer than that? No, it's not much longer.
You get picked up quickly. I mean, unless you were
traveling at an off time. But I'd go out and hit the
Aggie line in San Antonio and get to A&M by the same
amount of time as I do now. Where in San Antonio was
the best place for an Aggie to get a ride? It was at
Austin Highway. Austin Highway off of Broadway.
That's always been it. Used to be. That why. Every
time you knew where it was. And if you didn't,
someone would tell you. Share some of the
interesting anecdotes you remember from Aggie
hitchhiking. Anytime in your days. I always had
pretty good luck. I did get with a guy one time that
had been drinking and drove too fast. And I got out.
I forget where I got out. Round Rock somewhere. Not
Round Rock. Bastrop. But, you know, most of the
guys would pick you up. They might be Aggies, or
there were parents taking Aggies by them. So I
never had any unusual experiences. Never worried
about it. Did anybody buy you something to eat? I
don't remember that, no. We always stopped at
Bastrop. And did they ever offer you a drink? Never
was offered a drink, no. Any negative
experiences? None whatsoever. It was so routine.
Nobody thought anything about it. That's what you
said is almost exactly what everybody else has
said. And you didn't hold up a sign. No. They knew
you were there. Let's see. Did you veterans, did
they have a nickname for y'all or anything? No, we
were just, I think, non-regs. I think you call us
non-regs. You were all, even though you were a
veteran. Yeah.
What did you wear to class? That's a funny question
to ask because I don't remember, but I'm sure it
wasn't much.